JANUARY 8, 2019
Vagrant Quick Read
Introduction
Vagrant is the command line utility for managing the virtual machines. The following image shows the overview of vagrant.


vagrant overview
Vagrant Providers
Vagrant uses Providers to support managing machines on various virtualization technologies. The most popular providers are

Virtual Box
VmWare
Hyper-V
So for experimenting with Vagrant we need to have one of the above hypervisor’s installed on the machine

Installing Virtual Box
Refer here If you are on the windows machine with Chocolatey installed. Then execute the following command from powershell

choco install virtualbox -y
Install VmWare
Ubuntu

Windows

Enabling Hyper-V
Refer here

Installation
Official installation of vagrant can be found here

If you are on the windows machine with Chocolatey installed. Then execute the following command from powershell

choco install vagrant -y
Features
Vagrantfile:
A Vagrantfile is a configuration file for controlling virtual machine.
It uses simple ruby syntax Refer here
It contains all the necessary information needed for other user who wants to recreate the same vm
If the user needs to recreate the virtual machine created, then only Vagrantfile is shared
Boxes
Boxes are the package format for Vagrant
Boxes can be easily downloaded by using vagrant box add command
Publicly available boxes are shared here .
Every Box is restricted to run on supported providers. So while choosing the box check whether it matches your Provider(VirtualBox/Hyper-V/VmWare)
Networking
Vagrant supports 3 main types of networking
Public Networking
Private Networking
Port-Forwarding
Port-forwarding is the action of linking a port on your host machine to a port on the guest machine. Refer here
Private Networking_ allows the virtual machine to be accessed via private address. Refer here
Public Networking attempts to allow public access from outside your host machine (if your provider and machine will allow it) instead of just allowing access from inside the host machine. Refer here
Provisioning
Provisioning offers you the way to configure the virtual machine by executing Scripts or configurations. Refer here
Provisioning happens in the following cases
Executing vagrant up command for the first time
Executing vagrant provision command
Executing vagrant reload --provision command
Plugins
you want to change the way Vagrant does something or add additional functionality to Vagrant. This can be done via Vagrant plugins.
Vagrant CLI
Refer here

Cheat sheet


